# Yelp-Elitism-Explained
Predicting, based on a given Yelp user's set of reviews in a given year, whether (s)he achieves Elite status next year.

This project was created as an open-ended application of NLP concepts for the Info 256 (Applied Natural Language Processing) class taught in the University of California, Berkeley's School of Information.

__Overview:__ Yelp is a social-networking platform used by people to discover various businesses, especially restaurants, and glean an understanding of the businesses via reviews. The platform encourages users to contribute and establish their presence on Yelp. Our team identified a potential in examining ‘Elite’ user aspect of Yelp, which works to this end of identifying “star” contributors. Every year, Yelp hand-picks an exclusive community of users who are very active and are ostensibly among its best contributors for that year. We were curious with regard to the features of ‘Elite’ users, and attempted to create both qualitative and quantitative measures. A model that can predict whether user can become an Elite of not would be very valuable not only for Yelp, but also for users interested in becoming ‘Elite’.

__Note:__ All code in the notebook was written by me. I also made all design decisions regarding featurization, model selection, etc, and performed the analysis on the raw data available in the Yelp Academic dataset. My team ultimate contributions amounted to: initial brainstorming sessions, attempts at adding features to the learning models I had been developing, and final report structring, but essentially the entirety of the code present in the final notebook project is mine. I generally took ownership over this project, given the lack of availability of my team during the project timeline, which coincided with the waning weeks of the academic semester. Regrettably, failed to include more NLP-related features, as I did was unable to formulate more efficient of ways of accomplishing this during the project timeline, but I learned a lot from developing the project alone, and found the data analysis and machine learning aspects of the projects fascinating fascinating!
